# a4-crumbling-under-the-weight-of-plastic
### Introduction
The goal of “Crumbling Under the Weight of Plastics” is to elucidate the exponential growth of global plastics production and its immense scale by putting it in a context that people can relate to. We also want to show that the trajectory we are on has led to detrimental consequences for our environment. Our main design decision was to visualize the global plastics production weights as images of some amount of large scale buildings in our carousel slideshow.
### Carousel
We decided on using these comparisons because the weights are on the order of hundreds of millions, which is hard for the average user to perceive or fully grasp. By comparing the weights to well known large scale infrastructure and also including the image on hover, we hope that users can better understand the enormous scale of plastics production. Hovering also provides more specific information like how much one of those individual objects weighs.
### Line Chart
We decided on using an interactive slider because we wanted the user to be able to explore the change in plastics production and experience the exponential growth themselves. We thought that this would have a greater impact on the user as they scroll through the slider (or press the play button if they don’t want to manually scroll) because they can see the rapidly increasing axes grow alongside the (mostly) monotonic line. To enhance the interactive features, we added a vertical axis mouseover so that the user could hover anywhere along the y-axis of a point and be able to glean more specific details like the exact weight and year. This improves user accessibility by adhering to Fitt’s law of reducing target distance and increasing target area.
### Donut Chart & Histogram
Now that users have a sense of the scale of plastic production, we continue the narrative by showing them happens to all this plastic. We decided to use a donut chart to depict the 3 possible end states for the whole of plastic production. We are aware of the deficiencies of donut and pie charts in showing the differences between pie sections, but we thought our data worked well for a donut chart because (1) the goal of the donut chart is to show that the “Discarded” section is much bigger than the others and (2) there are few enough sections that the differences between section sizes are noticeable. The donut chart only visualizes data from 2015, so we labeled the year accordingly in the center of the donut. We end our story by highlighting the consequences of all the “Discarded” plastic on the ocean surface. We use a histogram to demonstrate the relative scales of micro plastics and microplastics in the ocean. Each graphic is paired with a paragraph that gives the user some necessary context and furthers our narrative.
### Animations & Interactions
We had a tough time deciding whether or not to have the donut chart and histogram visualizations update by year with the slider (like the line chart). We ultimately decided to only show the final year (2015) to improve performance since there is a considerable lag if there are too many moving parts on the user’s view. This makes for a better user experience and smoother animations on the line chart and carousel. Also, each visualization has a tooltip that provides additional information without hiding anything necessary. For example, hovering over the histogram reveals an image and some examples of what micro and macro plastics are.
### Color
In order to accommodate people with color blindness, we decided to use a grayscale color theme with a bolded blue accent. We felt that a blue accent pops against the gray for emphasis but doesn’t clash as harshly with our palette as other colors. The more subdued saturation also fits our narrative by conveying the bleakness of plastic production. 
### Work Distribution
Calvin - Line Chart + Tooltips, Year Slider, Play Animation, Title Visual, Carousel Images

Alejandro - Histogram + Tooltip, Donut Chart + Tooltip, Carousel (code) + Tooltip

Both - Written Narrative, Styling

Our development process consisted of a clear separation between features in order to reduce conflicts. We met virtually multiple times a week to discuss major design decisions, debug code, and provide updates.We each roughly spent about 20-25 hours developing the application, with the majority of the time spent integrating the slider with the line chart and getting accustomed with d3 early on.
